---
title: "That Feeling of Not Knowing What to Wear"
date: 2022-03-31
---

We all have those days where we stare into our closets and cannot decide what to wear. Sometimes, it's due to the occasion -- an event with a non-existent or indecipherable dress code, the first day at a new job, meeting someone important for the first time and wanting to make a good impression. Sometimes, it's entirely internal, that feeling of being unable to articulate the mood or feeling we wish to outwardly express with what we wear, or the feeling that what is before you in the closet just cannot hit the right mark. Or perhaps a combination of the two.

While I have these days from time to time, two prolonged occasions where I repeatedly struggled with the decision of what to wear stand out in my mind. Times when the challenge was not an occasion or a mood that I could not grapple with, but rather a complete undoing of the order in my life that rendered my previous experience utterly irrelevant. A situation where past is so clearly of no use, and future so foreign that it has to be greeted in a cautious, guarded manner. The first time was when I decided two years into my gig as a professor that I was no longer a grad student and I needed to get more serious about wearing more professional attire. From that shock to the system, I systematically built up a solid wardrobe of classic menswear and wore it to work every day. The first few weeks felt strange when I had to routinely overthrow my instincts and put on a dress shirt and nice shoes, but I gradually settled into the feeling of wearing nicer clothes on a regular basis. This change was indeed a shock to the system, but was one that came from a place of proactive, desired change, and so while it was a struggle I could feel measureable progress as I found my new footing and began to take pleasure in the daily ritual of picking out a combination from my small but growing wardrobe.

Familiar to many will be how start of the Covid-19 Pandemic in early 2020 induced a different sort of feeling, when our routines were substantially disrupted and social interactions moved from offices and pubs to FaceTime and Zoom calls, but with no internal desire to do so. However, I actually feel I navigated this transition fairly well, neither continuing to comically dress like nothing had happened nor devolving into lounging around in sweats all day. I said an abrupt goodbye to my roughly thrice weekly outfit featuring a tailored jacket and dress trousers (sadly, these lovely items are still mostly gathering dust in my closet, but after a few weeks I had made peace with this shift), and mostly wore button down shirts and dressier creased (though still machine washable) chinos with a sweater when necessary (i.e. every day during the long English winter). While I still had days when I longed for that unmistakeable feeling of cinching up a necktie into the crevice of my shirt collar and sliding my arms into my jacket sleeves, I was happy with what I was wearing.

Why the past tense with coming to grips with pandemic dress? Because in the spring of 2021, my wife and I had our lives changed forever with the arrival of a daughter. Where the pandemic ended up being a mild shift in direction due to working at home, the disruption of having a baby so thoroughly threw me for a loop that, much like during my revelation that life was not one long stint in graduate school, I felt unmoored sartorially. The first month or so was fine, in the sense that during this intense period there are rarely any social occasions to be concerned with and you are mostly trying to squeeze some sleep into every free moment that you have. I distinctly recall trying to decide what to wear to visit my wife and daughter in the hospital the second day (I settled on jeans and a J. Crew button down shirt), which is what I stuck with for the first few days before the baby came home. After that, I mostly wore old long sleeved t-shirts from high school and college and some old beat up Levi's that are around 10 years old, full of holes, and light in color (better to hide the milk and vomit stains, I guess?).

As the initial adrenaline wore down and we settled into the new reality that is parenthood, I struggled mightily to snap out of the old jeans and t-shirt mode. I had assumed I would go back to work and resume former my home working dress, which I had determined was fine in that nothing was too precious and everything could be washed easily (all our friends with kids told us that our frequency of doing laundry would skyrocket, so I assumed it would be no problem to toss dad's work clothes in with the onesies and burp cloths). That reality struggeled to take hold, however. Mornings when you are working from home can already be somewhat fuzzy, and the presence of a baby that constantly needs something blurred that distinction even more. I often dropped the pretense of getting dressed altogether, or did the "throw a nice shirt on over your pajama bottoms" routine. When I did manage to put on a decent shirt and keep it clean for the whole work day, the victory was often complicated by a nice comment from a neighbor telling me that I looked smart -- not because the comment was not made in good faith, but because I felt guilty that the comment was an indication that I wasn't doing enough childcare.

As summer wore on, I settled into a shorts and a polo shirt uniform. Somehow, I felt this struck the balance between practicality and expressing personal style, but in all likelihood it was just a safe choice that I could execute without thinking about it. This, after all, is the dream of the aspiring Steve Jobs out there, the idea that our work is so important and difficult that no additional ounce of brain power should be wasted on the triviality of something like getting dressed. For me, however, being able to face the rest of my day without worrying about second guessing my decision was where the value was, and fortunately I own a wide enough selection of colored polo shirts that I could do this without losing some sense of agency in my attire.

Pete at Put This On had a nice [post](https://putthison.com/fathering-your-whole-style-how-might-becoming-a/] several years ago about dad style and some examples of guys that find a nice balance between practicalility and still expressing some personal style
